
= Using Variables

Variables are powerful tools that allow you to save and use values
throughout your Workflow. You can predefine variables (the _Login Data_
in your _Workflow_ for example) or create variables at runtime (by using
_Read Clipboard_ for example) and then use these variables within other
_Action Steps_. Think of a variable as a placeholder for any
text/numeric constant, or value. When creating the _Workflow_, you can
create variables and use them as placeholders. During execution, these
variables will be resolved to the value you gave them or that you want
to assign to during execution. For example, if _Read Clipboard_ is used,
then the clipboard content at that point during execution will be
transferred to a variable and any _Action Step_ referencing that
variable will then use the value transferred.

== Pin Variables

Pin variables are used by creating a mapping between one set of _Action
Step_ properties and another _Action Step_ variable. If this option is
available, a little pin will be shown on the _Action Step_ that can be
mapped to:

image::advanced-concepts-using-variables-pin-variables-image1.png[Example Pin, 25%, 25%]

In the example above, _Read Clipboard_ provides a variable which can
then be subsequently used by _Ping_. This is indicated by the pin icon
on the right-hand side of the _Ping_ element. Click on the pin to open
the _Edit Variable Mappings_ wizard:

image::advanced-concepts-using-variables-pin-variables-image2.png[Edit Variable Mappings wizard, 50%, 50%]

Here you can see a list of all _Ping_ properties that can be mapped to.
Each property has an adjacent drop-down box containing all variables
which can be mapped to the associated property. To map a variable,
simply select it from the drop-down box. The variables which can be
allocated may change depending on the position of the _Action Step_. A
variable can only be allocated to the property "Suffix" within a
configured _File Controlled Loop_. Other variables are limited to one
_Transaction_. This limitation can be overcome using the _Variable_
_Action Step_. When you close the wizard, you will see that there is now
an active mapping, indicated by a black pin:

image::advanced-concepts-using-variables-pin-variables-image3.png[Example black pin, 25%, 25%]

You can also view a list of all other _Action Steps_ that a particular
_Action Step_ has taken variables from.

To do this, open the context menu for the _Action Step_ of interest by
right-clicking on the _Workbench_, then select the entry _Mapped to
Action Step_. The list will be displayed as a a sub-menu.

image::advanced-concepts-using-variables-pin-variables-image4.png[List Mapped to Action Step, 50%, 50%]

Clicking on an element in this sub-menu will take you directly to the
corresponding _Action Step._
