include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Network

=== Ping

This _Action Step_ is used for sending a ping to a computer or network
device. _Ping_ is useful to check if a particular machine is available
on the network right at the start of a measurement _Workflow_. If not,
it may be pointless to even try to continue the measurement.The response
time measured provides a _Measurement Point_.

The Action Step _Ping_ only supports IPv4!

==== Properties

*Invert Logic* If it is intentional that the destination host should be
unreachable and you want to test this, you can invert the logic of the
_Ping_ _Action Step_ by using this function. If the checkbox is
selected, then an unsuccessful ping is considered to be the correct
result.

*Show message box* Defines if a message box with the measured response
time should be displayed after the _Ping_ action is finished.

[#AS_Ping_P_AverageOver .anchor]####**Average over** If you want to use
more than a single _Ping_ to evaluate the response time, you can change
the number of _Pings_ sent by editing the value in the text field. The
resulting response time will be calculated as the average of all
attempts. If any of those attempts fails, the _Ping_ results in an error
and the timer will be unavailable.

[#AS_Ping_P_DestinationHost .anchor]####**Destination Host** Enter the
IP or hostname of the machine you want to ping

[#AS_Ping_P_ICMPPacketSize .anchor]####**ICMP Packet size** Defines the
size of the data package that is used for the _Ping_.

High values may create a lot of network traffic!

[#AS_Ping_P_ICMPRetries .anchor]####**ICMP Retries** Number of times a
single _Ping_ shall be repeated if a single _Ping_ failed by exceeding
the set ICMP timeout

[#AS_Ping_P_ICMPTimeout .anchor]####**ICMP Timeout** Defines the length
of time after which _Ping_ should stop trying to get a response from the
destination host

[#AS_Ping_P_PingDelay .anchor]####**Ping delay [ms]** Pause time between
_Ping_ retries

[#AS_Ping_P_PingThreshold .anchor]####**Ping Threshold [ms]** Defines
the allowed duration of a _Ping_ response. If the response exceeds this
duration, the _Ping_ is considered to have failed. This only works if
_Invert Logic_ is off. If _Error handling_ is set to _Normal_, a failed
_Ping_ will trigger the error handling.

*Record Timer* If activated, the _Ping_ response time will be recorded
like a _Timer_ or _Stopwatch_ and thus contribute to the reports in the
_ServicetraceÂ® X1 Server_

*Timer Mode* When "Record Timer" is enabled and the _Ping_ is used in a
loop, the following mode is for calculating the timer value:

* *Last* The last time measured is saved
* *Average* The script calculates an average of all times measured and
saves it
* *Min* The fastest time measured is saved
* *Max* The slowest time measured is saved

The Action Step _Ping_ is currently not supported by X1 Server 5.2. This
means that it is currently not possible to evaluate the data on the
server. You can still use the Ping in the X1 Design Studio because they
are still displayed in the _Workflow Run Results_.

==== Inbound Variables

*Suffix* can be used if the _Ping_ is within the _Control Block_'s _File
Controlled Loop_. A suffix is then added to the name of the _Ping_
during every loop. Each suffix is a column entry in the file that was
imported in the _File Controlled Loop_.

link:#AS_Ping_P_DestinationHost[*Destination host*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_ICMPRetries[*ICMP Retries*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_ICMPTimeout[*ICMP-Timeout*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_ICMPPacketSize[*ICMP Packet size*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_AverageOver[*Average over*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_PingDelay[*Ping Delay*]

link:#AS_Ping_P_PingThreshold[*Ping Threshold*]

==== Outbound Variables

*Time* provides you the measured time.

==== Wizard

See link:#properties[Properties].
