include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Write to Excel File

Use the _Write to Excel File_ Action Step if you want to write the
content you have read from an Excel file using the _Read from Excel
File_ Action Step either to the same or a different destination file.

The _Write to Excel File_ Action Step can only be used inside an Excel
Session. Specify the destination file in the
link:#AS_ExcelSession[_Excel Session_].

=== Properties

*Excel Operation Settings*

* *Add Sheet name if doesn't exist* If you select the checkbox here, the
sheet will be created new if it does not already exist.
* [#AS_WriteToExcel_P_Column .anchor]####**Column** This is where you
enter the column to which you are writing. You can enter letters or
numbers in this field. If you enter a number, this will correspond to
the number of the column in the Excel file.

* Example: Instead of A for column A, you can enter a 1 for column A, a
2 for column B (instead of the letter B), and so on.

* *Overwrite content* This is where you determine whether a cell, row or
column which already has content is overwritten with new content.
* *Range* (drop-down selection, default: Cell) There are three different
modes available:
** *Cell* If you select _Cell_, the text will be written to a specific
cell.
** *Row* If you select _Row_, the text will be written to a specific
row.
** *Column* If you select _Column_, the text will be written to a
specific column.
* [#AS_WriteToExcel_P_Row .anchor]####**Row** This is where you enter
the precise cell or row number to which text is to be written.
* [#AS_WriteToExcel_P_SheetName .anchor]####**Sheet name** Name of the
spreadsheet. Under Properties you can only enter the name directly,
unlike in the _Write to Excel File_ link:#wizard[Wizard].
* [#AS_WriteToExcel_P_TextToWrite .anchor]####**Text to write** This is
where you enter the free text that will populate the cell, row or
column.

* *Write value as* Here you can see whether the data in a cell is
written as text or number.

=== Inbound Variables

link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_SheetName[*Sheet name*]

link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_Column[*Column*]

link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_Row[*Row*]

link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_TextToWrite[*Text to write*]

[#AS_WriteToExcel_IV_ArrayToWrite .anchor]####**Array to write** This
variable is only used in Row and Column mode. It accepts an array as
well as a string in CSV format.

=== Outbound Variables

*IsWritten* (Bool) This is how you check whether the text has been
successfully written to a specific cell, row or column. The result is
_True_ if the text was written successfully to the destination file.

=== Wizard

The _link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_SheetName[Sheet name]_ field is for
selecting the spreadsheet to which text should be written. You can type
directly into the input field, select an existing sheet from the
drop-down list or connect with a Pin Variable. The drop-down list
contains all the sheets saved within the Excel file.

If you add a checkmark next to _Add sheet if it doesn't exist_, the
sheet will be created new if it doesn't already exist. You can also
connect here with a Pin Variable.

In _Excel Mode_ you specify via the drop-down list whether to write to a
cell, a row or an entire column. You can enter letters or numbers as a
value or connect with a Pin Variable.

Under Write value as you specify whether the data in a cell is to be
written as text or number. This function is only active if you have
selected the Cell mode under Excel mode.

image:media\image1.png[image,width=140,height=83]

This is useful to avoid errors in calculations. If you enter a number
and select Write value as _Number_, the value is treated as a number in
the Excel sheet. The original formatting of the cell in the target file
is retained.

In the _Text to write_ field you can enter free text which is to be
written to the Excel file or you can insert text via a Pin Variable.
_Text to write_ appears if you have selected _Cell_ mode. In the Row and
Column modes you will find the option
link:#AS_WriteToExcel_IV_ArrayToWrite[_Array to write_] at this point.

Selecting the checkbox next to _Overwrite content with text_ will
overwrite a pre-populated cell, row or column with new content. You can
also connect here with a Pin Variable.
