

= Math Operations

You can use this Action Step to perform mathematical calculations. You
can enter a formula with fixed values or add values using mapped
variables. The result can be reused in the course of the workflow.

The following mathematical operations are available:

* Addition
* Subtraction
* Multiplication
* Division
* Absolute value
* Maximum value
* Minimum value
* Exponentiation
* Round value

== Properties

*Calculate Expression Result as* Here, you can specify whether the
result should be calculated and displayed as a whole number (integer) or
as a number with decimals (floating point/double-precision floating
point).

*Math Expression* The formula entered is shown here.

== Inbound Variables

*Math Expression* Here, you can enter a formula with fixed values (for
example (42+84)/3), or insert variables via _Insert Available Variables_
for use in performing the mathematical operations (for example,
(\{a}+\{b})/\{c}).

== Outbound Variables

*ResultAsFloat* The result is displayed as a floating-point value.

*ResultAsInt* The result is displayed as a whole number (integer).

== Wizard

Enter the formula in the _Math Expression_ text field. Clicking _Insert
Mathematical Operation_ opens a drop-down list with all available
mathematical operations.

Under _Insert Available Variables,_ you will find all variables
previously added using the Pin button.

Up to ten variables can be mapped. These are displayed in the Wizard and
can be selected for the calculation.

//image:media\image1.png[image,width=443,height=294]

You can enter test values in the _Test Values_ field to test whether or
not the formula is valid. Then click the _Test_ button. If the formula
is valid, the result will be displayed. Otherwise, an error message will
appear. The values of the mapped variables are not important until the
production run of the workflow.

If you want to output the result as a floating-point value, select
_Calculate Expression Result as Floating-Point Value_; if you want to
display the result as a whole number, select _Calculate Expression as
Integer Value_.

Please note that implied multiplication also applies when you enter the
_Math Expression_ and you must put in the parentheses yourself.
