include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Using the Browser Wizard

The _Browser Wizard_ can be used inside _Web Automation Action Step_
wizards. Essentially it behaves like a normal browser and enables
additional elements of the website to be selected and their _Xpath_ to
be determined. This is required by nearly all _Web Automation_ objects
embedded in a _Web Session._

Clicking the _Browser Wizard_ button in one of the wizards opens a new
window that functions as a browser. The URL that was defined as the
initial URL for the enclosing _Web Session_ will be loaded
automatically.

//image:media\image1.png[image,width=539,height=278]

If you started the _Web Session_ with _about:blank_, you can enter a URL
to navigate to in the address bar at the top of the _Browser Wizard_.
This URL will be loaded when you press *_Enter_*.

Now use the mouse to position the cursor over the element you want to
check or use within a _Web Automation_ object. The element will be
highlighted with a blue border. If moving the mouse over the elements
does not highlight them, click on the website or web application within
the _Browser Wizard_ to activate it first.
////
image:media\image2.png[Ein Bild, das Text, Screenshot, computer,
Computer enthält. Automatisch generierte
Beschreibung,width=504,height=265]
////
To select the highlighted element press *_F2_*. The border will turn
blue and the _XPath_ and available attributes corresponding to this
element will be shown on the right.

Alternatively, first click the _Auto-Select after 5 Seconds_ button and
then highlight the element by hovering the mouse over it. After five
seconds, the highlighted object will automatically be selected.
////
image:media\image3.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=144,height=368]
