include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Send Mail

With the _Send Mail_ Action Step, you can send an e-mail with the SMTP
protocol. You can enter the recipient, the subject, or send attachments
just as with other e-mail programs.

You can only use the Send Mail Action Step within a Mail Session. You
enter the information required for the connection to the mail server in
the Mail Session.

=== Properties

*Send Mail Settings*

*Body* Here, the content of the e-mail is displayed. A total of 3900
characters are available.

[#AS_SendMail_P_EnterErrorStateFileDoesNot .anchor]####**Enter error
state when a file does not exist** If this checkbox is selected and if
one of the attached files is not found in the production run, the Action
Step is ended with an error.

[#AS_SendMail_P_FirstDirectoryPath .anchor]####**First directory path**
Path to the directory, in which the first file to be attached, is
located. Enter the absolute or relative path. If relative, then the path
refers to the variable _Base Path_.

[#AS_SendMail_P_FirstFileName .anchor]####**First file name** Contains
the path to the first file that is to be attached.

[#AS_SendMail_P_SecondDirectoryPath .anchor]####**Second directory
path** Path to the directory, in which the second file to be attached,
is located. Enter the absolute or relative path. If relative, then the
path refers to the variable _Base Path_.

[#AS_SendMail_P_SecondFileName .anchor]####**Second file name** Contains
the path to the second file that is to be attached.

[#AS_SendMail_P_Subject .anchor]####**Subject** Subject of the e-mail.

[#AS_SendMail_P_ThirdDirectoryPath .anchor]####**Third directory path**
Path to the directory, in which the third file to be attached, is
located. Enter the absolute or relative path. If relative, then the path
refers to the variable _Base Path_.

[#AS_SendMail_P_ThirdFileName .anchor]####**Third file name** Contains
the path to the third file that is to be attached.

=== Inbound Variables

*To* Recipient.

*Cc* Carbon copy.

*Bcc* Blind carbon copy.

link:#AS_SendMail_P_Subject[*Subject*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_FirstDirectoryPath[*First directory path*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_FirstFileName[*First file name*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_SecondDirectoryPath[*Second directory path*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_SecondFileName[*Second file name*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_ThirdDirectoryPath[*Third directory path*]

link:#AS_SendMail_P_ThirdFileName[*Third file name*]

*link:#AS_SendMail_P_EnterErrorStateFileDoesNot[Enter error state when a
file does not exist]*

=== Outbound Variables

*IsSucceeded* Indicates whether an e-mail was sent successfully.

=== Wizard

image:media\image1.png[Ein Bild, das Text enth√§lt. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=650,height=269]

The wizard is split into two tabs, *Message* and *Attachment*.

In the Message area, you can enter free text under *Body*. You can also
link the content with *Insert Available Variables*. You have defined the
variables in advance either using the Activity Parameters or the
Workflow Based Variables.

The pin variable with image:media\image2.png[image,width=217,height=19]
in the attachments area is only displayed if you have defined a variable
of type Bool using the Activity Parameters or the Workflow Based
Variables.

In the Attachment area, you can add up to three attachments to the
e-mail. Under Directory path, you define the path to the new file to be
created. You can create an absolute path or a path relative to the _Base
Path_ using the buttons
image:media\image3.png[image,width=141,height=17] and
image:media\image4.png[image,width=108,height=18]. The default value is
%STWS_BASEPATH%. You select an existing path using the button
image:media\image5.png[image,width=18,height=18]. To construct the path,
you can also insert variables from the workflow. To do this, click on
the pin image:media\image6.png[image,width=17,height=24]and select one
of the variables available.

You can find further information on the environment variables (Insert
Environment Variable) and script variables (Insert Script Variable) in
the Chapter entitled link:#AS_Settings[Settings].

You can find further explanations under link:#properties[Properties].
