include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Read from Excel File

Use the _Read from Excel File_ Action Step to read the contents of an
Excel file. The result will be saved as a string or an array, which you
can then use as an Outbound Variable in subsequent Action Steps.

The _Read from Excel File_ Action Step can only be used inside an Excel
Session. Specify the source file in the link:#AS_ExcelSession[_Excel
Session_].

=== Properties

*Excel Operation Settings*

* [#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_Column .anchor]####**Column** This is where
you enter the column that is to be read. You can enter letters or
numbers in this field. If you enter a number, this will correspond to
the number of the column in the Excel file.

* Example: Instead of A for column A, you can enter a 1 for column A, a
2 for column B (instead of the letter B), and so on.

* *Range* (drop-down selection, default: Cell) There are three different
modes available:
** *Cell* Text will be read from a specific cell. The result will be
output as a string.
** *Row* Text will be read from a complete row. The result will be
output as an array.
** *Column* Text will be read from a complete column. The result will be
output as an array.
* [#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_Row .anchor]####**Row** This is where you
enter the cell or row number that should be read.
* [#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_SheetName .anchor]####**Sheet name** Name of
the spreadsheet. Under Properties you can only enter the name directly,
unlike in the link:#wizard[Wizard].

=== Inbound Variables

link:#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_SheetName[*Sheet name*]

link:#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_Column[*Column*]

link:#AS_ReadFromExcelFile_P_Row[*Row*]

=== Outbound Variables

*Read from Excel File.Result* This variable is output as a string. The
result will only be shown to you if you have selected the _Cell_ mode.

If you have selected _Row_ or _Column_ mode, an error message will be
displayed and the Workflow cannot be executed.

image:media\image1.png[Ein Bild, das Text enth√§lt. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=604,height=112]

*Read from Excel File.ResultAsArray* This variable will be output as an
array if you have selected Column or Row as the mode.

*Read from Excel File.HasContent* (Bool) This is how you check whether a
specific cell, row or column has content. If there is content, the
result will be _True_ and if there is no content the result will be
_False_. If in the case of rows or columns only a single cell is
populated, the result is _True_.

=== Wizard

The _link:#AS_WriteToExcel_P_SheetName[Sheet name]_ field is for
selecting the spreadsheet from which text should be read. You can type
directly into the input field, select an existing sheet from the
drop-down list or connect with a Pin Variable. The drop-down lists
contains all the sheets saved within the Excel file.

In _Excel Mode_ you specify via the drop-down list whether to read a
cell, a row or an entire column. You can enter letters or numbers as a
value or connect with a Pin Variable.
