include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Combine Strings

The _Combine Strings Action Step_ allows multiple variables to be
combined into a single new variable. Script variables, environment
variables and _Pin_ variables can be used. Text can be inserted before,
after, and between variables.

=== Properties

*Pattern Text* This text defines the sequence in which variables and texts will be concatenated.

=== Inbound Variables

//link:#AS_CombineStrings_P_PatternText[*Pattern*]
*Pattern* This text defines the sequence in which variables and texts will be concatenated.

=== Outbound Variables

*Combined String* The combined strings stated as a single string, as defined in the Pattern Text

=== Wizard

//image:media\image1.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatischgenerierte Beschreibung,width=376,height=222]

The wizard contains the pattern text field which can be edited, two
drop-down lists of script and environment variables, and links to the
_Pin_ variables.

Clicking on the name of a variable from the list adds a reference to
this variable to the text field. You can also enter your own text into
this text field.

The pattern in the figure was generated by first linking the _Pin_
ActivityParameters.ap_alpha1 and ActivityParameters.ap_alpha2 to the
_Action Step_ via the _Edit Variable Mappings_ window. The text Variable
1: was then inserted followed by link _\{1}:_
ActivityParameters.ap_alpha. After the text – Variable 2: was added, the
second link was clicked on.

_Pin_ variables are inserted into the pattern as syntax \{[number in the
list of all _Pin_ variables]}, environment variables as %[name of
variables]%, and script variables in the form ($[name of variables]).

After all variables are included, the _Pin_ variable _Combined String_
will contain the result in the form of a single string.

The _Pin_ variables to be used must be linked with the _Action Step_
using the pin symbol before opening the wizard. The maximum number of
_Pin_ variables in a _Combine Strings Action Step_ is five. _Combine
Strings_ variables can be combined using the _Combine Strings_ Action
Step.

*Example:*

Macro \{1} is bound to variable *ActivityParameters.ap_alpha1* and Macro
\{2} is bound to variable *ActivityParameters.ap_alpha2*. The following
table represents the values of both variables and how they translate to
a new variable using different _Pattern Texts_:

[cols=",,,",options="header",]
|===
|*ActivityParameters.ap_alpha1* |*ActivityParameters.ap_alpha2*
|*Pattern Text* |*Output Variable _(Combined String)_*
|servicetrace |De |www.\{1}.\{2} |www.servicetrace.de

|servicetrace |Info |www.\{1}.\{2} |www.servicetrace.info

|Ms |Miller |Dear \{1}. \{2}, |Dear Ms. Miller,

|Mr |Johnson |Dear \{1}. \{2}, |Dear Mr. Johnson,

|Lorem |Ipsum |\{1}\{2} |LoremIpsum

|Lorem |Ipsum |\{2}\{1} - \{1}[2} |IpsumLorem - LoremIpsum
|===
