include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Set Array Variable

The Set Array Variable Action Step enables you to assign new values to
an array.

One possible use is to copy a list to an array in order to iterate
through all elements in the list more easily and to process individual
list elements further.

=== Properties

The _Set Array Variable_ Action Step contains no other properties other
than the link:#CommonProperties[+++general+++] ones.

=== Inbound Variables

*Array to change* (Array) Array in which values are to be changed.

The array must have previously been created as a
link:#WorkflowBasedVariables[Workflow Based Variable] or using
link:#AS_ReadFromExcelFile[Read from Excel File].

Please make sure that arrays are named according to their content. This
makes a Workflow easier to understand.

It is preferable to create an extra array in the _Workflow Based
Variables_ rather than to overwrite an array created using the
link:#AS_ReadFromExcelFile[Read from Excel File] Action Step with
different values.

*New array value* (array or alphanumeric) Values to overwrite the entire
array.

The entire array is rewritten with the given values. The former values
are deleted.

By changing the values it is possible to also change the number of
elements in the array (link:#Array_GetArrayCount[+++Array Count+++]).

=== Outbound Variables

The _Set Array Variable_ Action Step possesses no outbound variables.

=== Wizard

The _Array to change_ is the array with values to be overwritten. You
can select it from a drop-down list if such an array already exists.

The _New array value_ is the new values for overwriting the array. You
can include them via a Pin Variable or enter them directly as a list of
comma separated values in the relevant field.

The elements for array variables must be separated by commas.

The values for array variables are initially saved as strings. That is
why, when saving the Action Step, all array elements which are not yet
presented in double quotes will automatically be placed in double
quotes.

image:media\image1.png[image,width=604,height=105]

If you want to include an element containing one or more commas in your
list, you must place this element in double quotes before saving it.

E.g. “4,2” or “many commas: ,,,, , , ”

Text elements are permitted to contain single quotes:

E.g. “This ‘text’ contains single quotation marks.”

Text elements which need to contain double quotes must include another
double quotation mark before each double quotation mark and the whole
element also needs to be placed inside double quotes.

E.g. “This “”text”” contains double quotation marks.”

=== Example

Car servicing is to be automated at a workshop.

image:media\image2.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=604,height=342]

For testing purposes, the array _Services_, which is generated via the
_Workflow Based Variables_ and which contains the services actually
performed, can be pre-populated with values. Further on in the Workflow,
services are read from a scanned-in form, e.g. using _OCR_, and the
array _Services_ in the _Set Array Variable_ Action Step is overwritten
with the actual values.

=== Related Elements

The following sections may help you to better understand the
relationships between the individual array Workflow elements:

* link:#WorkflowBasedVariables[_Workflow Based Variables_]
* link:#Array_GetArrayCount[_Get Array Count_]
* link:#Array_ReadFromArray[_Read from Array_]
