include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Extract Images from PDF File

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P .anchor]####With this Action Step, you
can extract images from a PDF file.

=== Properties

*File Settings*

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_DirPath .anchor]####**Directory Path**
(String) The path to the folder in which the PDF file is located.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_FileName .anchor]####**File Name**
(String) The name of the PDF file.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_PasswProte .anchor]####**Password
protected** (Boolean) This indicates whether the PDF document is to be
opened with a password.

*Images Extraction Mode*

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_ExImFrPa .anchor]####**Extract images
from page** (Integer) The images are extracted from the PDF file from
this page onward.

*Extract images to end of file* (Boolean) If this option is selected,
all images up to the end of the PDF file are extracted. Here, instead of
specifying the last page, you can also select the checkbox
image:media\image1.png[image,width=113,height=19] in the wizard.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_ExImToPa .anchor]####**Extract images to
page** (Integer) The images are extracted from the PDF file up to this
page.

*Images Extraction Mode* The property displays which of the three modes
for extraction of images has been selected.

*Images Extraction Settings*

*Create directory if it does not exist* (Boolean) If this option is
selected and there is no folder, a target folder is created
automatically and the images are saved in it.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_NamePrefix .anchor]####**Name prefix**
(String) The prefix for the name of the image.

*Overwrite existing files with same name* (Boolean) If this option is
selected, files with the same name are overwritten.

*Save extracted images in* (String) Indicates in which file format the
images are saved, PNG or JPEG.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_SaveExImTo .anchor]####**Save extracted
images to** (String) Specifies the path in which the extracted images
are to be saved.

[#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_StartNumbN .anchor]####**Start number of
name suffix** (Integer) A number is used as a suffix in the name of each
image. The start number is displayed here and this is used to count the
first image. The number of each additional image increases by 1.

=== Inbound Variables

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_DirPath[*Directory Path*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_FileName[*File Name*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_PasswProte[*Password*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_ExImFrPa[*Extract images from page*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_ExImToPa[*Extract images to page*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_SaveExImTo[*Save extracted images
to*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_NamePrefix[*Name prefix*]

link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P_StartNumbN[*Start number of name
suffix*]

=== Outbound Variables

The _Extract Images from PDF File_ Action Step has no outbound
variables.

=== Wizard

*Images Extraction Mode* displays various options for extracting the
images:

* {blank}
+
____
*Extract all images* All images are extracted from the PDF file.
____
* {blank}
+
____
*Extract from page range* All images from a defined starting page up to
and including a defined ending page are extracted. If you select the
option “Extract to end of file”, all images up to the last page of the
document are extracted.
____
+
image:media\image2.png[image,width=276,height=61]
+
*Extract from selected area* The images are extracted from a specific
area of the PDF document.
+
image:media\image3.png[image,width=323,height=58]
+
A “Define area” button opens the selected PDF document in a dialog and
you can select the required area using the mouse. You can only define an
area within a single page**.**
+
image:media\image4.png[image,width=274,height=192]

If you click on the Save button, the window closes and you return to the
wizard. If you now click on the *Test button*, the image is saved in the
folder you selected under *Save extracted images to*.

You can find more details in the
link:#AS_ExtractImagesFromPDFFile_P[Properties].

You can find further information on environment variables (Insert
Environment Variable) and script variables (Insert Script Variable) in
the Chapter entitled link:#InsertSpecialCharacter[Insert Special
Character / Macro / Script Variable / Environment Variable] and
link:#AS_Settings[Settings].
