

= Select Web Element

Use this _Web Automation_ object to select an option from a list box or
a drop-down box.

== Properties

*Select Index* The index of the option to be selected. Only applicable
if _Selection Method_ is _Index_.

*Select Text* The text of the option to be selected. Only applicable if
_Selection Method_ is _Text_.

*Select Value* The value of the option to be selected. Only applicable
if _Selection Method_ is _Value_.

*Selection Method* Decide which method should be used to identify the
option which should be selected from the list or drop-down box. This can
either be _Index_, _Text_, or _Value_.

== Inbound Variables

//link:#WA_CommonProperties_ElementXPath[*Element XPath*]
*Element XPath*

//link:#WA_CommonProperties_WindowTitle[*Window Title*]
*Window Title*

== Outbound Variables

The Action Step _Select Element_ possesses no outbound variables.

== Wizard

When you have to choose something on a website or in a web application,
the available options are often offered in form of a list box or
drop-down box. Use _Select Element_ to make your choice from such a box.

//image:media\image1.png[File:Drop-down listexample.png,width=118,height=79]

If the element you want to select has an underlying hyperlink, then it
is not treated as an option in a list or drop-down box. Use _Click
Element_ in such cases instead.

When you use the _Browser Wizard_ to select the drop-down box that you
want to choose an entry from, all current options will be displayed in
the _Available Options_ field. Once you have selected one of the
options, you can choose the method used to identify it. Once you have
selected one of the options, you can choose the method used to identify
it. An entry is selected as standard by the _Value_. On an average
website, this should usually be the value that has potentially changed
the least. The _Text_ for an entry is the text that you, as user, read
in the picklist. Product names or the like are easy to select in text
form. The _Index_ for an element may be imprecise, particularly on
dynamic websites. If possible, therefore, _Index_ should only be used if
the element that is selected is of secondary importance.

When using _Internet Explorer_, selecting an option by index may take a
very long time!
