include::rpa-home::partial$pending-review.adoc[]

== Example Workflow Using Web Automation

As a quick example of how _Web Automation_ works and how it can be used
to make __Workflow__s much shorter, let us revisit our basic _Workflow_
created in Section link:#CreatingTheWorkflow[_Creating the Workflow_],
this time using _Web Automation_.

First, add a _Workflow_ to the project and enter the required
properties. Now, add a _Web Session_ to this _Workflow_. The _Web
Session_ settings include launching the desired browser. It will also
close this browser automatically after the session has been fully
executed.

image:media\image1.png[image,width=554,height=107]

Since we want to measure the initial loading time of the webpage, we
leave the _Initial URL_ as it is: _about:blank_.

If a _Web Session_ (as in the example) is placed directly in the
_Workflow_ and not in a _Transaction_, then all other _Transactions_ and
therefore all other _Action Steps_ too can be integrated into the _Web
Session._ This is recommended.

If, however, a _Web Session_ is integrated in a _Transaction_, it cannot
contain any other _Transactions_.

Now we need to load the website and measure the time it takes to load.
Place a _Transaction_ within the _Web Session_ and name it something
like "Load Website". Insert a _Stopwatch_ into the _Transaction_ and use
a _Navigate Action Step_ within the _Stopwatch_. Configure _Navigate_ to
navigate to a specific URL and enter the URL of the site you want to
load:

image:media\image2.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=421,height=187]

Your _Workflow_ should now look like this:

image:media\image3.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatisch
generierte Beschreibung,width=415,height=195]

The _Navigate Action Step_ finishes as soon as the browser stops loading
the specified website.
