
= Regex Examples

The following are some examples of using Regular Expressions.

== Example 1: Identifying an Exact Window Title

Action Steps identify window titles without using regular expressions
if the given string can be found in its entirety in an existing window
title. It does not matter if there are any preceding or following
characters.

Sometimes an application opens two different windows where the title of
one is contained in the other. A typical example is _SAP_, where you log
on to a system with the _SAP Logon_ application. In this case you will
have these two windows on your desktop:

image::advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-examples-image1.png[Example SAP - two windows, 50%, 50%]

The usual way of identifying a window by searching for a part of its
title will not work, since a search for the text "SAP" in the window
title would return two valid results.

In this case, best practice is to enable the _Use Regex_ function and
only allow exact matches for window titles. You can do this using the
following pattern _^[exact_window_name]$_

For this specific example the regular expression would look like this:

image::advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-examples-image2.png[Example for regular expression, 50%, 50%]

The _^_ indicates that the expression starts here, there must be no
preceding characters. The _$_ indicates that the end of the expression
is the last character before the _$_.

== Example 2: Identifying Window Titles with Dynamic Beginning, Middle, and End Components

Some applications first state their own name in the window title,
followed by a dynamic component, such as a session or user ID, and then
a module name or similar at the end. Sometimes a _Workflow_ opens more
than one application and uses more than one module within an
application. If it is necessary to check for the correct use of a module
in an application, you might need to identify a window title that is not
consistently the same, but rather is separated by dynamic parts.

One such application is _Microsoft Dynamics AX_.

image::advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-examples-image3.png[Example for Microsoft Dynamics AX, 50%, 50%]

If you need to identify a "Dynamics AX" window that contains the text
"cfu" near the end of the title, you can use the following regular
expression:

image::advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-examples-image4.png[Example for regular expression, 50%, 50%]

Using _.*_ allows there to be any number of alphanumeric characters
before the term "Dynamics AX", thereby accounting for the word
"Microsoft". Using the same method, the example allows there to be a
string of any length between "Dynamics AX" and "cfu".

How does this work? The _._ stands for exactly one alphanumeric
character, excluding newline. The _*_ is a quantifier that tells the
software processing the regular expression that the previous character
may repeat indefinitely.

Thus the single _._ at the end before the closing _$_ indicates that
there has to be exactly one alphanumeric character (excluding newline)
present.

== Example 3: Making a Window Title Search Case Insensitive/Use of Environment Variables

Some window titles might include components such as the name of the
logged-in user. It is a good idea to use the environment variable
_%Username%_ to identify the window at runtime so the _Workflow_ does
not have to be changed if the user changes (or if the user is random in
the first place).

It might happen that the username in the application uses upper case,
but the environment variable returns lower case, for example "User" and
"user".

If you want to identify the window title by using the environment
variable you have to make sure the case does not matter. You achieve
this by using _(?i)_ at the start of your regular expression.

image::advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-examples-image5.png[Example for regular expression, 50%, 50%]

This regular expression would find a window title like "Document
user.txt â€“ Editor".

== See Also

* xref:advanced-concepts-using-regular-expressions-testing-regular-expression.adoc[Testing Regular Expressions]
