

= Pattern Select

The _Pattern Select Action Step_ enables users to respond flexibly to
non-predictable situations.

It is deployed after executing _Action Steps_ which could result in
various states. These states are characterized by the presence of a
specific search pattern. How the program path will proceed depends on
whether one of these search patterns is found.

For this purpose, search patterns are recorded for every possible state.
_Pattern Select_ creates a _Case_ for every search pattern. Each _Case_
contains the steps to be executed in that situation. _Cases_ are
processed sequentially until a search pattern is found. If none of the
search patterns listed are found, error handling (_DoElse_ branch) can
be performed.

_Pattern Select_ is used, for example, when a new software user is
created. As a result, either a message stating that the user has been
successfully created can be displayed or a message stating that, for
various reasons, the user could not be created. Each of these possible
messages is captured in a screenshot and stored as a _Case_, so that the
subsequent steps in the _Workflow_ can be executed according to this
message.

Another use for the _Pattern Select_ _Action Step_ is to close in
succession multiple dialog boxes which are not shown on the screen in a
predictable order or position. In this scenario, the _Pattern Select_
_Action Step_ will be carried out until all specified windows are
closed.

The _Pattern Select_ image search is configurable and can contain up to
50 search patterns.

The configuration of the _Action Step Pattern Select_ cannot be changed
in Debug Mode. However, you can change the configuration of the _Action
Steps_ contained in the _Cases_ and the _DoElse_ block of the _Action
Step Pattern Select_.

If you set a _Breakpoint_ at the _Action Step Pattern Select_, you can
run through the different _Case_ branches by repeating the Action Step
in _Debug_ mode while changing the displayed search pattern after
breaking.

== Properties

*Image Processing*

*Allow multiple matches of a found pattern* If this option is selected,
the pattern may appear more than once in the _Search Area_. When this
option is not selected, the _Search Pattern Action Step_ returns an
error if the pattern is found but occurs more than once.

If the coordinates of the pattern found are to be reused subsequently in
a different _Action Step_ (e.g. for mouse clicks relative to pattern),
the coordinates used in the case of multiple identical patterns found
will be the ones for the pattern furthest to the left within the
_Search_ _Area_. If multiple identical search images are located on top
of each other in the same position on the left, the topmost image will
be selected.

*Hide mouse* moves the cursor during the search to the upper left corner
of the screen to the position with the coordinates x=0 and y=0. By this
way unwanted mouse hover effects can be avoided. Independently of this
setting the cursor is not included in the search. So also search
patterns covered by the cursor symbol are found. After the search the
cursor is set back to its original position.

*Margin for automatic search area [pixel]* Number of pixels around a
found pattern for defining the search area automatically. Valid values
lie between 0 and 999; the default-value is 100.

*Neighborhood Pixel* indicates the number of pixels by which the
position of a pixel found may differ from the specified position. The
default value for this setting is 1.

Please note that it is easier to search for similar images if the value
is greater than 1, i.e. the images are not 100% identical based on
pixels. The percentage score may vary by some percentage values
depending on position though.

*Original Desktop Size* Screen resolution at the time the image search
was last tested. This size is required in order to scale the _Search
Area_ (but not the _Search Pattern_) if the _Workflow_ is used on a
device with a different screen resolution.

*Pattern Steady check* enables the option 'Wait For Pattern Steady
Timeout' and checks whether the coordinates of the pattern found change
again within this time period. If not, the search is successful and
ends; otherwise the search is repeated.

*Reduce Score By [%]* When testing the _Search Pattern_ settings,
matches by this percentage below the _Score_ are also shown. These are
marked yellow in the test result window.

In the wizard, this setting is shown under _Search Settings_ and appears
as a yellow zone on the _Required matching precision (%)_ slider.

*Repeat search until nothing found* If the option to _Repeat search
until nothing found_ is enabled, the image search will be carried out
within the _Timeout_ interval until none of the images being searched
for are found anymore.

*Score [%]* indicates the accuracy in percent by which the pattern found
must match the specified pattern in order to be considered found. In the
wizard, this setting is labeled _Required matching precision (%)_ under
_Search Settings_ and appears as a green zone on a slider.

*Search Mode* There are three search modes:

* *Match only one pattern* is successful if exactly one of the specified
patterns being searched for is found
* *Match one or more patterns* is successful if at least one of the
specified patterns being searched for is found
* *Match all patterns* is successful if all of the specified patterns
being searched for are found

*Wait for Pattern Steady Timeout [ms]* If the option _Pattern steady
check_ is selected, a check for whether the pattern found is still in
the same position, or whether it still does not appear in the _Search
Area_, is performed according to the interval value entered here (or in
the wizard under _Search Settings_ > _Check whether found match stays in
same location every [time in ms] milliseconds_). If this is the case,
the search is successful and ends. Otherwise, the search is repeated
either until it is successful or the _Action Step_ times out.

A value of 0 means that the position of the pattern found is not
rechecked after having been found. The _Action Step_ does not then wait
beyond its runtime.

== Inbound Variables

//*link:#AS_PatternSelect_OV_FindCoordinate[
*Find Coordinate*

If there is at least one other Action Step that uses patterns before the
Action Step Search Pattern, the outbound variable _Find coordinate_
becomes the inbound variable for the subsequent Action Steps.

== Outbound Variables

*Pattern Case Index* returns the case index, which is executed based on
a pattern found.

//[#AS_PatternSelect_OV_FindCoordinate .anchor]####*
*Find Coordinate* Top left corner of the pattern that has been found successfully. If a search
is made for multiple patterns and they are found, the coordinates
returned are of the image on the far left of the series of patterns
being searched for as specified in the wizard. If multiple identical
patterns are found in the same position on the far left of the _Search
Area_, the topmost one is used.

*Found Pattern Name* The name of the matched pattern as entered in the
_Pattern Gallery_.

*Found Matched Pattern Count* Number of found search patterns from the
_Regular_ category. The number of matches can consist of matches for
different patterns. Matches of patterns of the category _Ignore_ and
_Exclude_ are not counted.

_Found Matched Pattern Count_ is 0, if _Search Pattern_ returns an
error. Even, if matches for patterns of the _Regular_ category are
found.

== Wizard

The _Pattern Select_ wizard is for selecting _Search Patterns_ and the
key search settings.

The basic functionality of the _Pattern Strip_ shown here, including all
pattern operations, is described in xref:adding-a-pattern-from-screen-capture.adoc#pattern-strip[The Pattern Strip Module].

Click _OK_ to confirm the configuration settings or _Cancel_ as
applicable. The _Test_ button evaluates the search and displays the
results in the Search Results window.

== Filtering by Pattern Name and Resizing Pattern Images

Entering text into the _Filter…_ field hides in stages all patterns in
the lower sections of the wizard with names not containing that text.
The filter text may appear in any position within the pattern name, but
must be continuous.

*Example:* If the _Search Pattern_ _Action Step_ contains patterns with
the names House, House1, Mouse, and Mouse1, the search filter will find
all images when use is entered, only House1 and Mouse1 when 1 is
entered, and House and House1 in the case of H.

////
To make all the pattern images in the wizard larger or smaller, use the
two buttons with a minus
image:media\image1.png[image,width=15,height=15] or plus
image:media\image2.png[image,width=15,height=15] symbol inside a
magnifying glass.
////
== Regular Patterns

This section lists patterns that are to be found. The number of patterns
that can be found is limited to 50.

There are three ways of searching for patterns.

//image:media\image3.png[Ein Bild, das Tisch enthält. Automatischgenerierte Beschreibung,width=276,height=97]

*Match only one pattern* is successful if *exactly one* of the selected
patterns is found in the _Search Area_. An error is returned if none or
a number of the selected patterns are found.

*Match one or more patterns* is successful if *at least one* of the
selected patterns is found in the _Search Area_. An error is returned if
none of the selected patterns are found.

*Match all patterns* is successful if *all* of the selected patterns are
found in the _Search Area_. An error is returned if none or not all of
the selected patterns are found.

If the option _Match all patterns_ is enabled, only the _Case_ branch
for the image with top priority is carried out. In the graphical
information that is the first search pattern and/or the top _Case_ in
the list.

If a pattern appears multiple times, a successful search will occur as
above if _Allow multiple matches of a found pattern_ is enabled in the
_Search Settings_. The _Action Step_ will otherwise return an error if
the same pattern appears multiple times.

The order of the _Cases_ in the _Action Step_ corresponds to the order
of the search patterns in the wizard. The _Workflow_ continues with the
steps for the first _Case_ that arises.

Be sure to fill out the _DoElse_ block too. An empty _DoElse_ block
causes an error when executed, resulting in the entire _Workflow_ being
terminated.

Patterns may be chosen from the _Pattern Gallery_ or created by means of
a screenshot (_Capture_).

//image:media\image4.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatischgenerierte Beschreibung,width=422,height=151]

//image:media\image5.png[image,width=602,height=153]

Click to select one or multiple patterns and delete or move them as a
group. When a pattern is selected, a white tick will appear on a green
background in the top right corner. To undo the selection, click the
_Clear Selection_ button. A vertical black line indicates where the
pattern can be moved to using drag and drop. If _Match one or more
patterns_ is selected the first pattern in the list will have a blue
border. This image can be used as a reference point for other Action
Steps as the Workflow progresses (see <<Other Uses of Matched Patterns>>).

== Capture Pattern

One way of defining a pattern is to take a screenshot that shows it.

The function of the _Capture Pattern_ button is described in xref:adding-a-pattern-from-screen-capture.adoc#add-pattern-from-screen-capture[Adding a Pattern from Screen Capture] 

All patterns captured using the _Pattern Select_ _Action Step_ are
transferred to the _Workflow_'s _Pattern Gallery_.

== Add Pattern from Gallery

If the _Pattern Gallery_ for the _Workflow_ already contains patterns,
they can be added to the list of patterns for the _Action Step_.
//using the _Add Pattern from Gallery_ button
//image:media\image6.png[image,width=25,height=23].

The _Select Patterns to add_ window shows all the images that the
_Workflow_'s _Pattern Gallery_ contains. A white tick on a green
background in the top right corner indicates patterns which are already
included in the _Search Pattern_ _Action Step_. Patterns already
included in another category of the same _Action Step_ are not shown.

//image:media\image7.png[image,width=538,height=364]

To add patterns to the search, simply use the mouse to click and select.
Use the same method to deselect patterns which should no longer be
included in the search.

Click OK to confirm the selection and add it to the pattern list for the
_Action Step_.

== Ignore All Matches within These Patterns

If checking for the single occurrence of a pattern that may be part of
other patterns, you must exclude patterns containing the searched-for
pattern within them from the search. The number of patterns that can be
excluded is limited to 50.
////
As described above, patterns to be excluded from the search can be
inserted here using a
//file:///C:/Users/seberhard.SERVICETRACE/Desktop/WorkInProgress/HandbuchWE3/Handbuch_WE3.0_inBearbeitung_NeueTexte_EN.docx#_Einen_Screenshot_eines[screenshot]
or from the
//file:///C:/Users/seberhard.SERVICETRACE/Desktop/WorkInProgress/HandbuchWE3/Handbuch_WE3.0_inBearbeitung_NeueTexte_EN.docx#_Ein_Muster_aus[Pattern
Gallery].
////

Example: Search for the word staff as a noun but only if it doesn't form
part of another term, e.g. 'staffing'. This pattern must be included in
the green field among the patterns being searched for. Other patterns
containing this term, e.g. staffing or staffed must be added here.

Areas in a single color are not taken into account within the pattern.
It is therefore not sufficient in the above example to capture staff
with free space at the right edge, because this free space will not form
part of the pattern being searched for due to a lack of _features_.

== Changing the Search Pattern Category

//image:media\image8.png[image,width=605,height=264]

The patterns selected can be moved between the categories _Regular_ and
_Ignored_. Use the _Move to…_ button in the menu bar to do this.

//image:media\image9.png[image,width=605,height=369]

== Search Settings

//image:media\image10.png[image,width=604,height=246]

The settings needed most frequently for all types of search can be set
and modified using the _Search Pattern_ _Action Step_ wizard under
_Search Settings_.

The _Required matching precision_ in percent is shown as a green zone on
a slider. A yellow zone to the left of the green indicates the range
that was entered in the _Properties_ under _Reduce Score by [%]_ to
monitor criteria during the test in an advanced search.

You can use either the general _Timeout_ or your own.

If the option _Check whether found match stays in same location every
[time in ms] milliseconds (Wait for Image Steady Timeout [ms]_ in the
property pane) is enabled, it may make sense to choose a different
_Timeout_ depending on this value.

Because the repeated image search has to be completed in an interval
defined here within the timeout, the recommended maximum interval value
is ½*_timeout_.

_Move mouse to 0,0 while pattern search is active_ moves the cursor
during the search to the upper left corner of the screen to the position
with the coordinates x=0 and y=0. By this way unwanted mouse hover
effects can be avoided. Independently of this setting the cursor is not
included in the search. So also search patterns covered by the cursor
symbol are found. After the search the cursor is set back to its
original position.

The search area is displayed on the right side of the settings section.
Click the button _Define manually_ to define the search area by
drag&drop. The button _Define automatically_ automatically defines a
search area containing all _regular_ matches visible at the time of the
definition of the search area. The _ResetTo Full Screen_ button turns
the search area back to full screen.

The Search Area can be set to either a _fixed_ or dynamic (_relative_)
position. To define a dynamic position, use the _Relative To_ picklist,
which lists all variables of type _Coordinates_ that are available at
this point; these include, for example, Outbound Variables from a
previous _Search Pattern_ Action Step in the same transaction. When a
coordinate is selected in the wizard as “Relative To”, an offset vector
is immediately calculated. While the _Workflow_ is being designed, this
points from the selected coordinate to the top-left corner of the
_Search Area_. At _Workflow_ runtime, the calculated offset vector is
applied to the real-time value of the _Search Area_ that the coordinate
relates to. This means that the _Search Area_ at _Workflow_ runtime is
positioned at exactly the same distance from the “Relative To”
coordinate as at the time of design.

The option to _Repeat search until nothing found_ repeats the image
search until no more search patterns can be found or until it times out.
One possible use is to close multiple dialog boxes which may be
encountered in an unknown order and position.

If the option to _Repeat search until nothing is found_ is enabled, the
maximum _Timeout_ is less than double the time entered here. If multiple
patterns are included and the first one is found within the timeout, the
timeout period will be extended by the specified _Timeout_ once only.
All other patterns must then be found within this remaining _Timeout_
period. Otherwise the program enters an error state and executes the
_OnError Case_. The _Timeout_ is therefore adjusted to the duration of
the steps that need to be completed within the _Cases_.

If the Option to _Repeat search until nothing is found_ is enabled, the
following is to be noted with regard to the various search options:

* *Match only one patterns* Here only one of the images from the selection
may be visible at any time. This option can be used if the patterns are
layered on top of one another
* *Match one or more patterns* Here any of the search images may appear
* *Match all patterns* Here all images within the selection must be found

For all modes, the following is applicable:

* If multiple patterns are found the _Case_ branch is carried out for the
image with top priority. In the graphical information that is the first
search pattern and/ or the top _Case_ in the list.
* If the option to _Allow multiple instances of a found pattern_ is
enabled, the above priority is given and then the image that is located
furthest to the left within the _Search Area_ is re-used. If multiple
identical search images are located on top of each other in the same
position on the left, the topmost image will be selected.

== Test

Pressing the _Test_ button will launch the search independently of
_Workflow_ execution and open the _Search Results_ window where the
search is evaluated. This can provide hints about possible improvements
that could be made to the _Search Settings_.

//image:media\image11.png[image,width=604,height=318]

The screen content at the time the test was performed takes up the main
part of the window _Search Result_.

A blue border surrounds the _Search Area_. The area outside the _Search
Area_ is shown grayed.

_Matches_ are highlighted in color. The color legend at the right side
of the window works simultaneously as a check box panel for switching
the display of the different match types on and off. If there are no
matches of a certain type, the according check box field is shown
grayed.

_Search Patterns_ of the list _Match all / only one / one or more
pattern(s)_ found within the defined precision are highlighted green.
Matches from the list _Ignore all matches within these patterns_ are
highlighted light blue and matches from the list _Make sure none of
these patterns appear_ are highlighted red.

A yellow highlighting shows that the search pattern could have been
found if the precision had been set lower. This reduced precision is
calculated by deducting the _Reduced Score_ from the _Score._ In each
case, the precision of the match is stated.

Matches outside of the _Search Area_ are marked in gray color
irrespective of their type. . Patterns with a _Color Spot_ that are
found but do not match the _Color Spot_ color at a specific position are
marked in blue. You can see the type of the match in the details pane on
the right side of the window.

On opening the window the size of the screenshot is adjusted so, that
the whole screenshot is visible. You can zoom in to or out of the image
by dragging the slider at the right side of the screenshot. It is also
possible to do this by mouse wheel. Double click on the slider shows the
image in its original size. If the image is enlarged, scroll bars for
adjusting the position of the view appear on the right side and on the
lower border of the image.

Below the slider the current mouse position in relation to the screen
shown in the screenshot is displayed dynamically.

Mouse hover over a match shows the name, a thumbnail and the matching
precision as a tooltip.

Clicking a Match on the screenshot shows details to this Pattern on the
right side of the window. Clicking a pattern in the tab _Pattern_ at the
lower border of the window shows details to all matches to this pattern.
Clicking a match in the screenshot only shows details for this single
match. Details contain the name, type, size in pixels and a thumbnail of
the pattern along with a color-marked listing of the found matches. For
all matches, the coordinates of the upper left corner and the matching
precision are displayed. The coloring is the same as described above.

Clicking a match in the details pane toggles the highlighting of the
according matches in the screenshot. Highlighting of a Match is
indicated in the details pane by a colored border and the intensifying
of its background color. Clicking a _Match_ in the details pane displays
an animated arrow pointing to this match in the screenshot. In the
process, the screenshot is resized so it can be seen in its entirety
within the window.

//image:media\image12.png[image,width=285,height=65]

The tab _Search Results Summary_ shows a textual overview over the
search settings and the search result.

If the search failed because of one single pattern, this pattern is
shown in tab _Failure Reason_.

== Other Uses of Matched Patterns

If mouse clicks are to be performed relative to a matched image and, at
the same time, the search is for more than one image, the image that the
mouse clicks relate to must be at the top of the list.

If the first image on the list is not found, the mouse click will be
inserted relative to the first image from the list that is found.

If the first image on the list that is found occurs multiple times, the
image located on the far left of the screen will be used. If there are
multiple images in the identical lateral position on the left, the
topmost one will be used.

Directly before editing the _Mouse click_ _Action Step_ the reference
pattern must be found by performing the _Test_ function for the _Pattern
Select_ _Action Step_. Otherwise the previously found search pattern
will always be used as the

== See Also 

* xref:toolbox-general-pattern-gallery.adoc[Pattern Gallery]
* xref:toolbox-checks-search-pattern.adoc[Search Pattern]
* xref:adding-a-pattern-from-screen-capture.adoc[Using Search Patterns in a Workflow] 