

= Managed

The _Managed_ block allows you to handle errors within your _Workflow_
as they happen. It also can be used to make sure that certain action steps or _Transactions_ are executed, even if an error occurred.

== Properties

* *_OnError_ section behavior* If an error happens within the _OnError_
section, it can either be handled like any other error (_Normal error
handling_) or the Workflow can be immediately aborted (_Abort script on
error_).
* In the first case the DoAlways part will be executed before program
termination, in the latter case not.

== *_DoAction_*

This is the default path of the _Managed Block_. The RPA Bot will first
try to execute all action steps within the _DoAction_ section. If an
error occurs (e.g. an _Image search_ fails), the execution of the
_DoAction_ section will be aborted and the _OnError_ section will be
executed. If the _OnError_ section is empty, an error within the
_DoAction_ section will cause the _Managed Block_ to enter an error
state.

== *_OnError_*

This section will be executed if an action step within the _DoAction_
section has failed. You can try to handle the error here and restore a
state in which the rest of the Workflow can still be executed normally,
even though the _DoAction_ section failed. If all items within the
_OnError_ section are executed successfully, the _Managed Block_ is
considered successful ($run = 1). Note that an empty _OnError_ section
will *not* change the run state. Use _Force OK State_ (see Section
3.8.4) for that.

However, if an error occurs within the _OnError_ section, its execution
will be aborted and the _Managed Block_ will remain in the error state
($run = -1). What happens next depends on the setting for behavior of
the _OnError_ section. If it is set to _Normal error handling_, the
Workflow will handle an error in the _OnError_ section like all other
steps, meaning the error can be handled by an enclosing _Managed Block_.
If it is set to _Abort script on error_ the Workflow will be instantly
aborted if any further error happens within the _OnError_ section.

== *_DoAlways_*

The _DoAlways_ section will be executed at the end of the _Managed
Block_, regardless of whether an error has occurred within the _Managed
Block_ or not. The only exception is when the _OnError section behavior_
is set to _Abort script on error_ and error occurred within the
_OnError_ section. If an error occurs within the _DoAlways_ section, its
execution will be aborted but the error state of the _Managed Block_
will remain unchanged. Execution of the _DoAlways_ section has no
influence on the error state, which will always be the same as at the
time the section was entered.

== Example

The following example will show you how to react to common problems
directly in your _Workflow_ using the _Managed Block_.

Imagine you want to open up an _Internet Explorer_ window and enter a
web address. First you start _Internet Explorer_ using run program,
search for the address bar to verify that _Internet Explorer_ is loaded,
and then enter the web address.

//image:media\image1.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatischgenerierte Beschreibung,width=319,height=79]

Usually, when _Internet Explorer_ starts, the focus will be on the
address bar.
// which looks like this:

//image:media\image2.png[10.2 Managed Example - 2.png,width=616,height=36]

This is what we are searching for with the _Image search_. When we find
it, we simply enter the web address and are done.

However, it is a common problem that sometimes _Internet Explorer_ loses
the focus immediately. This means that the address bar text will not be
highlighted and have the focus.
//The address bar will look like this:

//image:media\image3.png[10.2 Managed Example - 3.png,width=614,height=37]

The _Image search_ will not find this. Plus, the address bar does not
have focus, so you cannot simply start typing with the keystroke item.
The desired website will not be opened.

The _Managed Block_ gives you the perfect solution for this problem.

You put _Run Program_ and _Image search_ within the _DoAction_ section
and _Keystrokes_ containing the web address in the _DoAlways_ section. +
If you do not find the _Pattern image_, the _Managed Block_ will execute
the _OnError_ section. There, you simply put another keystroke to press
*_F6_* – this is the _Internet Explorer_ shortcut for focusing the
address bar. This ensures that the address bar is focused when you enter
the _DoAlways_ section. +
Then you can type in the web address and be sure it is entered correctly
– problem solved!

//image:media\image4.png[Ein Bild, das Text enthält. Automatisch generierte Beschreibung,width=391,height=264]
